# playedagefilter
A musicbase utility that filters output based on last played date values; ensures recently played tracks are filtered out as ineligible for playlist use.
It uses awk to filter the ratingfilter.sh output file ($HOME/.popmfiltered.dsv) by default (or other file specified), and outputs results, filtered by using LastTimePlayed date thresholds, to a database file (default: $HOME/.timefiltered.dsv) of not-recently-played tracks, which can be used to create playlists. Thresholds are set based on repeat frequency by rating group (five POPM range groups). For example, five star tracks (POPM 229-255) might be ‘eligible’ for repeat every 50 days, while four star tracks (POPM 161-228) are not until 180 days. In other words, five star tracks played within the last 50 days would be filtered out, four star tracks played within the last 180 days are filtered out, and so on. Group age thresholds have default values, but users will need to revise group age thresholds (using option flag -g) for days needed to make output more or less restrictive; using comma-separated values, set higher age thresholds for the lower-rated tracks, and lower ones for the higher-rated tracks you want to repeat more frequently; example: -g 1525,1430,920,315,190,40. Also, the range of POPM values for each of the five groups (see table above) can be modified from defaults to fit an existing POPM rating scheme for your library, using the -u and -v option flags, or set permanently using a configuration file (see below). Check the help file for other options available.
